# Plant-Disease-identification-classification
Plant diseases is undesirable for agricultural production and this will results as food insecurities. For agriculture to be sustainable and proper, as well as to avoid loss of money and other resources, timely and precise detection of plant diseases is essential. Plant diseases must be prevented and controlled effectively on the basis of early identification. Also, there is possibility that the plant diseases does not have visible symptoms, hence there should be advanced analysis methods for the disease detection. It has become increasingly important in recent years to identify plant diseases.
 
Generally, on-site identification of diseases of plant is often done by agricultural and forestry professionals, or by farmers using their own knowledge. This subjective approach is not only arbitrary, but also time taking, difficult, and ineffective. Also there is possibility that farmers could make mistakes because of little expertise. This will result in financial losses, time losses and environmental pollution.
In order to solve these problems, the application of image processing techniques for plant disease diagnosis has become a significant research field. CNN-based models have had great results in more recent research. Basically, the main objective is the automatic identification of plant diseases in the field. The majority of earlier research focused on images of diseases that were captured in a synthetic or laboratory. As a result, the backdrop of such images is typically a plain, solid colour with just one object in the foreground. The techniques are not appropriate for real-world application systems from the natural surroundings.
In this work, the dataset is collected from three different datasets from natural environment with 20 classes of plant disease. EfficientNetB0 model based on transfer learning have been used. With data on plant diseases, the models are tested and trained. On comparing the other models with the EfficientNetB0 model, it was seems to be more effective.


# Dataset
To evaluate the performance of the model, three distinct datasets on plant diseases has been considered in this work. The datasets are Turkey plant dataset, cinnamon plant stem and branch disease dataset and sunflower fruit and leaves dataset. It is clear that the images in the collection were taken on the site and the intensity is likewise rather constant. The Turkey plant dataset is made up of 4448 images that are broken down into 15 classes that are obtained from academics working in the field of plant protection at the Agricultural Faculty of Bingol and Inonu Universities in Turkey. The Cinnamon plant stem and branch disease dataset is made up of 326 images that are broken down into 2 classes ( RoughBark,StripeCanker ) that are gathered from Cinnamon plantation in Sri Lanka. The sunflower fruit and leaves dataset is made up of 332 images that are broken down into 3 classes(Gray mold , Leaf scars, Downy mildew) and obtained from mendeley platform.
This dataset contains total 20 classes with 5106 images of plant diseases which are classified into three categories: test, train and validation.
Access the Dataset on my Kaggle Account : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/duggudurgesh/plantdataset

# Conclusion
In this study, deep learning models were applied for the diagnosis of plant illnesses using on site images of 20 different classes of plant diseases, based on particular convolutional neural network designs. In this work, EfficientNetB0 is the most successful model architecture and achieved a success rate of 90.49% on previously unseen images (testing accuracy),99.51 training accuracy and 88.25 validation accuracy.
